---
abstract: >
  AI doesn't real, the current set of software being claimed as such will
  eventually lead to all of the devs and ops currently being laid off being
  rehired at two or three times their original rates to clean up the messes
  that are becoming ever more visible every day.
author: Xander Harris
blogpost: true
category: Miscellaneous
date: 2035-08-05
tags: encryption, ssl, tls
title: Janitorial work pays the best 
---
Being an engineer always in search of new and useful tools led me to adopt what is being passed as AI early, then to learn the details of how it works and why it was adding hours or days to my MTTR, which I did. After some further study of the matter all of the evidence available to me suggests what you are asking about is, in fact, just Sam Altmin's moral failings having a far larger impact on the world than they ever should have.

I don't use AI do improve my work for two reasons: 1) AI does not exist. We are not weeks or months away from General AI, or some god-like machine that will either destroy humanity or build paradise for us. This is religious thinking (specifically, Abrahamic religious thinking) and onyone free of those chains and willing to do the research knows damned well how little we as a species know about what consciousness even is, and since that is a prerequisite for general inteligence, the current craze can be (mostly) safely ignored, as it will dissipate like the last few have in a few months or years. For the record, my first run though this little bag of bullshit was in 2000 right after it popped the Internet bubble and I started my career with nought but a Kindergarten Diploma and the will to be a computer programmer. 2) The only people I have seen using what is currently be passed off as AI ARE NOT ENGINEERS OR SCIENTISTS (excluding some folks that are studying protein folding, but that's been technology available since at least 2014). Every single one of them has failed the Turing Test, which, it turns out doesn't test computers, but people. And these people, every last one of them, love to post to LinkedIn about how AI is the future like Jesus is coming back, every last one of them, also holds a position at the director level or higher at some company that will be destroyed by the inevitable discovery by regular folks that they've been lied to for going on three years now. That event is inevitable, and when it comes, those companies will be destroyed along with untold chunks of the economy us regular folk are stuck trying to scratch a living out of since whatever portion of the DOW the "munificent seven" represent evaporates overnight. Like 1929, but with less regulation and worse climate conditions made all the worse by the fact that the only thing that's really changed about the situation versus 2018 from a technology standpoint is the storage capacity available to these systems. There's nothing new here, AI doesn't improve my work, so I don't use it. If it improves yours, you should feel bad about that. It's everyone's water you're destroying so that you don't have bother having know literally anything about anything.

This question is immensely stupid, and makes me wonder if this job would even be worth having since the mere presence of this question suggests a company that isn't long for this world, and certainly has leadership that HAS NO IDEA WHAT IT IS DOING. If it did, it would be able to see through the obvious lies of the present Singularity Snake Oil salesman. I'm sorry bro, but you're gonna die just like the rest of us.

Tell you something more important if you've made it this far: The reason you hire me and listen to what I have to say is that every single word, nah, ngram of this response has been given a great deal of thought and I'm telling you what is real by my best estimation, not what you want to hear, which is obvious. You hire if you want your computers to work and stay working and you want the guy in charge of that to be someone you know will not lie to you even when facing near certain starvation (as I am now) for having had the nerve to be among the first to spot the bullshit. I don't feel good to be around, people don't like generally, but I DO NOT LIE. Where I'm from, that should matter more than everything else. Maybe you don't see it that way, if so, it's fine, I don't actually need your money.
