---
abstract: This post will provide more details on
  kubeadm usage meant to compliment that found
  in the official manual.
authors: Xander Harris
blogpost: true
category: kubeadm
date: 2025-10-08
tags: kubeadm, analysis, guide
title: A detailed look at kubeadm.
---

The intent of this blog is to eventually provide an in-depth
overview of the bits and pieces of {term}`Kubernetes`, what makes them
go, and how they all fit together. . . And the author states
with the confidence of someone announcing the impending
launch of an experimental rocket that someday eventually will
come and this little waste of time will be useful if one may
be so bold as to say so.


```{note}
There are several logical prerequisites for this post.

1. {ref}`quick-and-dirty-control-plane-with-kubeadm`
```

## A handy reference for the home lab admin

Or at least, the author likes to think that's what's happening here as opposed
to a hostage situation with a perfectly innocent rescue dog that's done nothing
to anyone on the editorial board except maybe try to bite a few of them.

In the meantime, the editorial board notes that there are,
in fact, between two and several actual bare metal {term}`Kubernetes`
clusters that need to be operational, monitored, and have
uptime that is better than "sometimes." The author has complained that
"sometimes" should be an acceptable QoS for services with not more than
3 or 4 users each, but the editorial board (most of the members of which have
yet to receive their appointments to same) remains implacable on this issue, so
someday will have its timeline shortened somewhat, at least for information
relevant to spinning up clusters and getting them to report themselves as
healthy and ready for work.

To meet the editorial board's demands, we'll today be looking at {term}`kubeadm`
in a bit more depth than the quick and dirty treatment it has received
previously and (one hopes) in more of a stepwise manner than the treatment
provided by the official Kubernetes reference. Let's get started before the
editorial board makes good on their threat to shoot my dog if this isn't done
today.

### A brief review of the official docs

While {term}`Kubernetes` is an extremely well-documented project, including
the reference material for {term}`kubeadm`, if one were to take a gander 
at that 
[reference material](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/setup-tools/kubeadm/),
they may find themselves wondering where exactly to start and what exactly
the definition of done would be. Since none of us got here without reading
(and ignoring) the several imprecations from the {term}`Kubernetes`
contributors themselves to avoid doing the exact thing we're doing unless
someone is holding your dog hostage or something, we can safely infer that
a stepwise how-to sort of document was never intended for the use of
{term}`kubeadm` which is fine. Really, it's just fine and the author's dog
will be fine too. Just fine.

The reference material is quite useful once you know some of the 
limitations and common tasks of {term}`kubeadm`, so keep those handy.

### Meanwhile, a Florida man recently robbed a Kum&Go with an alligator

Or, this post here is where you can find that stepwise guide to the use
of {term}`kubeadm` along with its limitations and common tasks mentioned above,
so enough prevaricating let's dig into the meat of the thing.

### Common tasks

The most common things you'll need to do (especially at first) are to initialize
or reset a cluster or node either because you're starting a new one or
something bad that's totally not your fault has happened to an existing one
to make it unusable.
