---
abstract: A kubelet in every node.
author: Xander Harris
blogpost: true
category: Worker Nodes
date: 2025-08-01
tags: kubelet, core
title: Kubelets
---

The {term}`kubelet` can be thought of as the most basic unit of a {term}`Kubernetes`
cluster since one is required on every node, including the control planes.
It kind of ties the room together, so don't let it get wet.

## Preparing Worker nodes

Hypothetically the only things that required to tie the worker nodes
together should be the control plane and the {term}`kubelet` running on them.
There are some limitations or difficulties. The author's understanding at
the time of writing is that running Windows worker nodes in concert with
`*nix` worker nodes is not a simple proposition. The reason for this is
irrelevant since we'll be running Linux, {term}`ArchLinux` specifically, for
all of our nodes.

That said, as long as your nodes are all running a version of Linux, you should
be able to run a {term}`kubelet` on them and join it to your control plane
without too much fuss.

The editorial staff of whatever entity controls the creation and distribution
of this work is much too lazy and solipsistic to go into a detailed
explanation of the process here, so to cover all the bases, make sure
to
[RTFM on the actual manual's site](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/adding-linux-nodes/).

## Installation

Since we're all friends who know how to use {term}`ArchLinux`, we'll go ahead
and install the {term}`kubelet` on three of our computers using the command
below.

1. Install {term}`kubelet` with `yay` on all of your worker nodes.

   ```{code-block} shell
   yay -S kubelet
   ```

   1. For the contrarians, you may also install the {term}`kubelet` from the
      [AUR](https://aur.archlinux.org) manually.

      1. Clone the related repository.

         ```{code-block} shell
         git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/kubelet.git
         ```

      2. Update your working directory.

         ```{code-block} shell
         cd kubelet
         ```

      3. Use `makepkg` to create and install the package.

         ```{code-block} shell
         makepkg -si
         ```

    But enough showing off, back to the salt mines.

2. Enable the {term}`kubelet` with `systemd`

   ```{code-block} shell
   sudo systemctl enable kubelet
   ```

## Join the cluster

This process is completed in three simple steps.

1. Connect to the control plane.

   ```{code-block} shell
   ssh the-control-plane
   ```

2. Use {term}`kubeadm` to print your join command.

   ```{code-block} shell
   sudo kubeadm token create --print-join-command
   ```

3. Connect to your worker nodes.

   ```{code-block} shell
   ssh {worker-node-one,worker-node-two,worker-node-three}
   ```

4. Run the join command obtained above.

   ```{code-block} shell
   kubeadm join 192.168.100.5:6443 --token abcdef.abcdefghijklmnop \
    --discovery-token-ca-cert-hash sha256:eba12bf8e45c71c0747df39212f0f7d7d6c4b88a9d82fd44a70d6b0b247415c2
   ```

If this completes without error, congratulations, you're ready to do
actual work on your cluster. If not, you can always go back to RTFM.
